---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/segment.png
navigation: True
title: Specification and Instrumentation
date: 2021-02-05 09:27:00
tags: [Data Engineering]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post'
author: krishna
---

## Specification and Instrumentation
<br />

Amy is an entrepreneur/business woman. After inheriting a shoe business from her parents. She decides to understand how she could grow this business. She starts interviewing some of the customers that had before bought from the store but haven’t shown up for quite a while. After talking to them, she realizes that customers now prefer to buy shoes online since it saves them time and money. Coming to the store is not a convenient option for them.

Amy envisions how this can hurt her business. She needs her business to have an online presence. Talking to her college friend Dave who has a background in tech. Dave suggests she open an online e commerce store for her business. He even offers help to build it for her for a stake in her business. Amy gives this a thought and agrees to Dave’s proposition.

After 2 months of hard work, Dave pushes the final commit to make the e commerce store live. 2 weeks in Amy is seeing customers buying shoes from her online store but the orders are limited. Some of the customers add items into the cart but never checkout. She decides to look into how she can understand a customer’s journey, what prevents a customer from placing the order. What works well for the customers who do order?

Amy wants to make data driven decisions to better understand the health of her business. To understand her customer’s behavior, she needs to have a tool to capture her user’s action on the website. She discusses her intentions with Dave.

Dave does some research on existing products which could be used to solve this analytical use case. After researching across many vendors, he chooses Segment as a strong contender.

### What is Segment?

Think of Segment has an ingestion tool which allows you to ingest (amongst other sources) user generated events from your website. These events can then be processed and stored within your warehouse. Once loaded, the data can be used for analytics.

“A customer data platform helps you capture data from every customer interaction, consolidate that data into centralized user profiles and audiences, and connect the right data to the tools your teams need to grow.”

### What is specification and Instrumentation?

Segment allows you to capture all javascript events that are configured to be tracked. It is important that a specification is created to specify what to track. This specification plays a crucial role in preventing unwanted data. It also helps to have a unified view of what is being tracked across many teams.

Once you have a specification in place, now it’s time to add trackers within your javascript/backend code. These trackers act as a source for the segment events, they get dumped into a data warehouse of your choice.

Some of Segment’s key feature are

Protocols - In place governance tool to confirm high quality events
Personas - Build user personas


For example, as part of her analysis Amy wants to know how many users add items to the cart and do not checkout. She can run a query to identify the users whose actions triggered the “add_to_cart” event and try to analyze the journey of these particular users via sampling.


### What is the business value?

The main business value that Amy derives from Segment is that she can analyze many kinds of actions that her user’s perform on her website. Combining this with other metrics she can build a complete 360 view of her customers.

### What are other alternatives?

Some of the alternatives include

RudderStack - https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-server

Snowplow - https://snowplowanalytics.com/




